Please provide a summary of this earnings call transcript as you have been instructed by your system messages.

Tjerk Huysinga - Shell plc - EVP of IR
So welcome to Shell's Capital Markets Day. I'm Tjerk Huysinga, Executive Vice President, Investor Relations. I'm very happy to see you and so many
familiar faces here in New York. I also want to welcome everyone who is following this presentation through the live stream.
Today's meeting has several sessions. We will start with Wael Sawan, our Chief Executive Officer; and Sinead Gorman, our Chief Financial Officer. After a short break, Zoe Yujnovich, our Integrated Gas and Upstream Director; and Huibert Vigeveno, our Downstream and Renewables and Energy Solutions Director will each provide an update on their businesses. You will get the opportunity to ask all the executives questions at the end of their presentations.
After the Q&A, our live stream here will end. We will have lunch for everyone here, followed by an opportunity to ask further questions in 1 of the 3 breakout sessions with Zoe, Sinead and Huibert. By the time we finish, I know we will all welcome some refreshments, and I hope many of you here will join us there.
The cautionary note, which you see here, might not look very exciting, but it contains a few crucial messages. So please familiarize yourself with it. You'll find it also online. And with that, I would like to give the floor to Wael Sawam.
Wael Sawan - Shell plc - CEO & Director
Thank you, Tjerk, and welcome, everyone, to our Capital Markets Day 2023. It's great to see so many of you in person, and welcome to those of you
joining online as well.
Today, we announced how we will deliver more value with less emissions. We do that on the back of a differentiated strategy for a balanced energy transition. This is underpinned by a commitment to our world-leading integrated gas and upstream businesses and by leveraging adjacencies and strengths in our differentiated downstream businesses to develop profitable low-carbon opportunities that enable the energy transition. We target a 10% per annum free cash flow per share growth through to 2025, with a ruthless focus on performance, discipline and simplification. Enabled by a structural cost reduction of $2 billion to $3 billion by the end of 2025 and the lowering of our capital spend to $22 billion to $25 billion per annum over 2024 and 2025. This allows us to enhance our shareholder distributions to the 30% to 40% of CFFO level.
Our confidence in a sustainable increase to our free cash flow also leads us today to announce a dividend per share increase of 15% at Q2, subject to Board approval and a minimum buyback program of $5 billion for the second half of the year as we preferentially aim to allocate capital to share buybacks. In short, today, we will outline our plan to become the investment case through the energy transition. But before we dive into all of that, let me start off by introducing my management team.
First, Sinead, known to many of you, Sinead has been with Shell for 24 years. She has excelled in roles across the company from upstream to projects and technology and from integrated gas to trading. Next is Zoe Yujnovich. So we had a very successful career outside of show. And since joining, she has continued her excellent track record of delivery across upstream and integrated gas. While bringing an external perspective to our executive committee. Finally, we have Huibert Vigeveno, who has had a distinguished career at Shell in numerous roles across the world. Huibert is a specialist in downstream, and I don't know anyone with more knowledge of our customers. Together, we have a lot of ground to cover, touching on what will stay the same and what will change.
But let me start with what isn't changing our strategy. Powering progress sets out our strategy to create value, first and foremost, for our shareholders as well as for our customers and wider society. We do this by focusing on generating sustained shareholder value, reducing carbon emissions, powering lives and respecting nature. Our purpose remains the same and continues to be as relevant today as it was in 2021 to provide more and cleaner energy solutions. We will profitably transition Shell to become a net 0 emissions energy business by 2050. Powering Progress has withstood significant external volatility and discontinuities and showed it continues to be the right strategy.
The last 3 years have not only been a huge challenge for the world. They have significantly challenged the energy system. As a consequence of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, governments grappled with the importance of energy security. A mere 1% reduction in global energy supply had significant consequences for trade flows and commodity price volatility. Despite these challenges, the company performed well, and its response only strengthened our convictions and our fundamental beliefs. And we have not been standing still, as you will have seen in our latest energy transition progress report. We will provide an update on our energy transition strategy in early 2024.
Let's now take a look at the energy system. Now how the energy system will look in 5, 10 or 20 years from now is impossible to say. But in the midst of this uncertainty, there will be developments we can be fairly sure of. The global energy mix is changing. However, demand for energy services will continue to grow and will have to be met by a combination of different types of energy. There is no one solution. It is critical that the world avoids dismantling the current energy system faster than we are able to build the clean energy system of the future. Oil and gas will continue to play a crucial role in the energy system for a long time to come, with demand reducing only gradually over time. Continued investment in oil and gas is critical to ensure a balanced energy transition. Because of the growing energy demand I just mentioned as well as the natural decline rates and severe underinvestment in recent years.
We also believe that liquefied natural gas or LNG, will play an even bigger role in the energy system of the future than it plays today. The reasons are clear. LNG can be easily transported to places where it is needed most. And what's more, on average, natural gas emits about 50% less carbon emissions than coal when used to produce electricity, making it the natural lower carbon substitute in the near term. The pace of the transition from fossil fuels to low carbon energy depends on many things, including government policy and regulations, the affordability of energy, development of new technologies and importantly, changing customer demand.
Low carbon energy is expected to represent a growing proportion of worldwide energy demand in the future in the form of both molecules and electrons. I believe Shell has the customer access and the relationships that will allow us to thrive in this context, which brings me to the next slide. There are only a few energy companies that can successfully build new business models in more complex and hard abate sectors such as transport and industry. We are amongst the leading global players today in both sectors, satisfying more than 3% of energy demand. These sectors matter.
They currently make up around 70% of total energy demand. representing more than 55% of emissions and the combined addressable market is expected to conservatively double to around $10 to $12 trillion by 2050. There are both sectors where we have incumbency, system understanding and control points and will, therefore, be our focus areas. We will address our customers' needs with a focus on molecules given our natural strengths in that area. We will selectively invest in renewable generation and mostly supplement with electrons from others. We recognize our distinct advantages are less in generation and much more in trading and optimization in B2B customer intimacy and eventually in low carbon molecules, which are enabled by green electrons.
In short, we want to play to our strengths, where we can uniquely add value. While the destination of a Net Zero emissions energy system remains clear, this will not be a linear journey as different places transition at different paces. Let's be honest, no one knows the exact pace at which this will evolve in every country. And therefore, we will be pragmatic in our approach. We will also be dynamic in our response. We are absolutely committed to our world-class upstream and integrated gas businesses, which will increasingly have lower emissions and through which we will continue to provide secure energy. We will profitably enable the energy transition by leaning into low-carbon opportunities, not everywhere, but where we have adjacencies, a track record and where we see the right environment to invest.
We will focus as the market evolves on low carbon molecules serving the transport and industry sectors. And we will do this with a relentless focus on performance, discipline and simplification across the organization. This will allow us to reward our shareholders today and well into the future. With the portfolio we have and the direction we have set out, I firmly believe that Shell, in addition to being recognized as a great company, will be the investment case through the energy transition.
So how do we accomplish that? I've previously talked about operationalizing parent progress. That means focusing on delivery during the here and now. Having the right strategy is critical, but it's not enough to ensure that we deliver to our full potential. We have to take our strategy and translate it into everyday actions. And those actions need to be guided by certain principles if we are to be successful. Those principles are performance, discipline and simplification. With these principles in mind, we embark on our first sprint. We use the concept of a sprint through to 2025 to establish a track record under this management team. With a focus on delivering the targets we have promised over this period, while investing to take advantage of opportunities for our future.
Getting the most out of the great assets we have means delivering on a consistent basis, quarter after quarter, year after year. Take deepwater. In the first quarter, we saw the highest controllable availability in a decade at our Gulf of Mexico assets and the business has been performing close to its potential for a prolonged period. This is what performance looks like, delivering world-class results day in and day out. But results are not just absolute. It is our commitment to ensure that we make the most out of our portfolio on a relative basis versus our peers. And this is what I want to drive across the company. We are embedding accountability for delivery through the business lines and deeper into the organization.
To deliver excellent performance you need a company that is focused on creating value and that diligently delivers what it promises. That takes discipline, discipline in how we invest and allocate capital, discipline in how we spend and discipline in how we execute. Every dollar of our shareholders' money needs to be stewarded with care. You will -- you'll hear more about that from Sinead shortly. We have not always been known for our speed and simplicity. That is changing. You will have seen that we began the year by streamlining our executive committee to enable faster and more nimble decision-making. Shortly after, we took the decision not to proceed with the biofuels unit and base oils plant investments at our Singapore Energy and Chemicals Spark. Last week, we announced the divestment of the European Shell Energy Retail business. And today, we are announcing not only the plan to market our interest in Shell Pakistan, but also the strategic review of the Singapore Energy and Chemicals Park.
This is more than just disciplined capital allocation. This is about decisively simplifying and high-grading our portfolio. And it's not just the organization and portfolio that we are looking to simplify. We are also moving from over 40 business and financial commitments to 4 very focused group level financial targets that you will see later in the slide pack. So we are making choices, questioning projects and assets with one goal in mind. Every single part of our business needs to help us deliver more shareholder value while lowering emissions. Having just covered the how, let's now discuss the what. We are blessed with an incredibly well-positioned portfolio, which we must get the most out of and develop further.
You will hear more about the specifics of each of the businesses from Zoe and Huibert shortly. However, let me give you a sense of what we will be focusing on. We have a leading integrated gas business, which we intend to grow while addressing the key challenges that we have experienced in our operations. We see considerable potential to create further value here with new production coming on stream and having signed a number of attractive third-party contracts for LNG. Earlier, I outlined our conviction that oil and gas will be required for the foreseeable future, and it is our advantaged upstream portfolio, along with integrated gas that will contribute to enabling us to deliver the secure energy that the world needs today and for a long time to come.
We will continue to do so with a focus on value over volume and an expectation that liquids production will remain stable through to 2030, having met our high-grading target in 2022. On to our differentiated downstream Renewables and Energy Solutions business, which is our primary customer-facing vehicle. First, we will focus on value over volume in our marketing business by reducing our mobility footprint and getting the most out of the portfolio. We will also high-grade our chemicals and products business, improved delivery from our energy and chemicals parks, while repurposing them to provide the cleaner molecules that our customers demand. We will achieve all of this by leveraging our world-class trading and optimization capabilities, which have served us well and which we expect will deliver some 2% to 4% of ROACE uplift depending on market conditions.
Simply put, all of this gives us the confidence to announce enhanced distributions of 30% to 40% of CFFO through the cycle, which will be underpinned by a greater than 10% per annum free cash flow per share growth through to 2025. And we will invest $10 billion to $15 billion between 2023 and 2025 in low-carbon energy solutions. Positioning us to capture the significant value opportunities we expect will emerge through the energy transition in our focused markets. In short, we will deliver more value with less emissions.
With that, it's time for me to hand over to Sinead to talk us through how we are going to achieve this.
Sinead Gorman - Shell plc - CFO & Director
Thank you, Wael. We take our responsibility as custodians of our shareholders' capital extremely seriously. At the heart of everything that we do will be a ruthless approach, capital allocation and a singular focus on creating long-term value. We will make every dollar account, be unemotional with our spend and deliver performance, not promises. And so this is not just about distributions, but also about how we drive discipline across the entire organization, enabling us to reduce both OpEx and CapEx.
Despite inflationary pressures and a volatile external context, today, we are lowering our cash CapEx range from $23 billion to $27 billion to $22 billion to $25 billion both 2024 and 2025. I will say more on this shortly, but first, let me outline our plans for cost. We aim to achieve $2 billion to $3 billion of structural cost reductions by the end of 2025. This is about streamlining the way we work, simplifying our processes and being laser-focused. We will seek to achieve structural savings across all parts of Shell. This will require focusing the portfolio by exiting high cost and lower return businesses and simplifying the remaining core. To give you a sense of how focusing the company can contribute, the exit from Challenge retail alone will remove some $300 million per annum of operating expenses, both directly and in terms of overheads and management's time.
And in terms of our approach to businesses that remain during my time and upstream over a period of 3 years, we reduced cost by some [10%] in our lean assets with our conventional oil and gas portfolio. We achieved this through simplifying the operating model, removing layers, increasing accountabilities and taking a risk-based approach to all activities. We intend to replicate this across the company and expect significant savings. Focusing the company isn't justified the portfolio. It extends the sectors we serve as Wael said earlier. We will prioritize hard-to-abate sectors, ally transport and industry to help grow and decarbonize our customer base. This will lead to opportunities to further simplify and take all start.
We will identify and go after opportunities quarter after quarter, year after year. All of this will enable us to enhance shareholder distributions. We remain confident in the performance of the business, which is why today we are announcing our plan to increase the dividend per share by an expected 15% at Q2 subject to Board approval. We continue to believe that we are undervalued. And as a result, we will preferentially allocate capital to share buybacks. That is why we are announcing buybacks for the second half of this year of a minimum of $5 billion to be completed by the Q4 results announcement, subject to Board approval.
In short, being more disciplined in cost and capital generates more cash to support our growing dividend and continuing with buybacks. Now let me cover CapEx. In the recent past, our spend has been at the higher end of our peer group. And we believe that constraining capital will force us to make tougher choices, ensuring that only the most attractive projects will receive funding. This will reinforce our focus on delivery across the company during the first print through to the end. As stated earlier, we will be lowering our cash CapEx range to $22 billion to $25 billion for both 2024 and 2025. We expect to spend some $13 billion per annum in Integrated Gas and upstream going forward. With both continuing to contribute significantly to cash flows for the foreseeable future, allowing us to sustain our liquids production and grow LNG sales.
Having made a number of organic and inorganic investments in marketing, such as Nature Energy in Denmark and of course, Landmark in the U.S, we will now reduce capital expenditure in the short term and focus on getting the most out of the investments we have already made. In chemicals and products, we will largely focus on spend that sustains our current business with an expectation that capital employed will be flat in 2030 versus today. And finally, in Renewables and Energy Solutions, we will take a measured approach. We will selectively take development risk in renewable generation projects, diluting as they mature and retaining access to the green electrons.
In hydrogen and CCS, we will invest to decarbonize our own assets first and help to decarbonize our customers over time. Our annual cash CapEx after power dilutions will be some 21 billion to 23 billion for both 2024 and 2025. Capital and carbon will be managed centrally. We will allocate carbon in a similar way to how we allocate capital, pragmatic in our approach and dynamic in our response. We expect to grow free cash flow on an absolute basis by a rate of more than 6% through to 2030. This is compared to a normalized 2022, which was an exceptional year as based on a $65 per barrel real term oil place.
Now let's cover how we're going to allocate the cash that we deliver beyond CapEx. The cash generating ability of the business and the actions we are taking allows us to both continue to pay our dividend and allocate capital to buybacks in line with our new 30% to 40% of CFFO guidance in both a $50 and the $65 per barrel world. The additional cash flows in the $65 world will go to a mix of both buybacks and deleveraging. We continue to believe repurchases are a good use of our cash. And hence, you will see us allocate capital towards buybacks even at $50 per barrel. Continued share count reduction and growing free cash flow means that we expect an annual free cash flow per share growth rate of greater than 10% through 2025.
The dividend remains our #1 financial priority and our confidence in our ability to sustain the increase that we have announced today, together with a progressive approach is well supported, given that our dividend breakeven stands at some $40 per barrel. Everything that I've covered so far feeds into our financial framework. It is clear that we believe in pragmatism and balance. This means allocating capital based on value. We place importance on the strength of our balance sheet and our ambition to have AA credit metrics through the cycle remains. We will continue to look for opportunities to reduce net debt, while staying true to our preference for share buybacks.
The improvements that we are making will continue to be allocated to shareholders. We will reduce OpEx, reduce CapEx and still more discipline and increase our distributions. Simply put, more for our money, meaning more for our shareholders. Thank you. And now back to Wael.
Wael Sawan - Shell plc - CEO & Director
Thank you, Sinead. As we delivered the oil and gas the world needs today, we reduced carbon emissions from our operations by 30% by the end of 2022 as compared to 2016 on a net basis. This is more than halfway towards our target of a 50% reduction by 2030. We achieved this while globally, energy-related emissions increased by around 4% over the same period.
We continue to bring down emissions at pace and have made excellent progress, and we are going further. As an industry, it is imperative that we do our utmost to reduce and ultimately eliminate methane emissions. At Show, we will aim to achieve near 0 methane emissions by 2030. In the shorter term, we aim to eliminate routine flaring from our upstream operations by 2025 challenging ourselves to move faster than the World Bank's Zero Routine Flaring 2030 initiative. As we transition this company, we will approach both capital and carbon allocation with the same discipline and value focus. What this means in terms of carbon is that we will preferentially allocate our budget to businesses such as integrated gas in which we have a strategic advantage and that lower the overall carbon footprint of the energy system.
Furthermore, we will invest in carbon abatement projects in these businesses to minimize their impact. As a consequence, this will require us to achieve reductions disproportionately from parts of the company that we are less advantaged in such as chemicals and products. The world needs companies like Shell to reduce carbon in the energy system while exercising pragmatism. For example, we will work together with our customers to displace high-carbon energy sources such as coal with cleaner alternatives such as gas. Beyond working to cut carbon emissions from our own operations, we are committed to supporting our customers in their decarbonization journey.
For this to happen, we need a fundamental change in demand along with the supply from fossil fuels to low carbon energy solutions. This will need to be supported by regulations as well as the development of new technologies. We, at Shell will play our part. We plan to invest some $10 billion to $15 billion across 2023 to 2025 to support the development of low carbon energy solutions, including biofuels, hydrogen, electric vehicles charging and carbon capture and storage.
Take Holland Hydrogen One. We will produce hydrogen from renewable power to cut emissions from our operations and help decarbonize our customers. In short, we will develop enabling infrastructure in areas where we see adjacencies with our integrated businesses and pathways to attractive returns in the medium term, while we also see longer-term opportunities. We are leveraging our strengths in hard-to-abate sectors such as transport and industry, supplying products and services that we believe will be commercially viable and truly move the needle. These sectors and others will need bold government policies and regulations that stimulate the demand for low-carbon energy, which in turn allow businesses like ours to continue to invest.
We will continue to transparently advocate in favor of these enabling policies. We will also embrace innovation in support of the transition. At our technology hubs, we take ideas from concept to customer enabling them to transition faster. In 2022, 40% of our total R&D spend went to proving and scaling low carbon products and services. That nicely leads me to 2 critical enablers, I believe we have to deliver more value with less emissions. Technology and people are the backbone of our success today and will be critical for our success in the future. Our technology hubs are providing innovations, leveraging capabilities such as high-performance cloud computing and digital solutions in our oil and gas business, doubling the speed of seismic data processing.
And artificial intelligence has allowed us to increase LNG production by 1% to 2%, with no extra capital spend. In other words, adding significant and tangible value today. And we are also developing the technologies for our lower carbon future, such as our cancel technology to capture CO2, which won 8 consecutive bids we competed for in 2022. But the heart of show is in our 93,000 strong people. Our employee survey results last year reflected some of the highest scores we have seen in a decade. Confirming our people are as engaged as ever and that we have a great workplace culture, and we work hard on improving this further. For example, through our drive to become one of the most diverse and inclusive companies in the world, today, 30% of our senior leaders are women. This management team's opportunity is to fully mobilize the tremendous energy amongst our people to deliver the targets and ambitions that we have set for ourselves.
So let me summarize what I hope you will take away today. We will provide the secure energy that the world needs by investing around $40 billion in our integrated gas and Upstream businesses while investing $10 billion to $15 billion in low-carbon energy solutions between 2023 2025, positioning us for the transition. Performance, discipline and simplification will be our guiding principles. The additional free cash flow that we will deliver will accrue to our shareholders, resulting in distributions of 30% to 40% of CFFO. We continue to believe our shares represent significant value. And so we will preferentially allocate capital to buybacks.
For this reason, in addition to increasing the dividend per share by 15% and we are also announcing buybacks for the second half of the year of a minimum of $5 billion. All of this means we will deliver a free cash flow per share growth of greater than 10% through to 2025. In short, we aim to be the investment case through the transition. With that, I thank you for your attendance, both in person and online. And now Sinead and I will take your questions.



(Q&A section omitted)



Thank you, Tjerk. A pleasure to be here. We spoke earlier about our focus on performance discipline and simplification. And I'm going to talk about
how we're applying this to the integrated gas and upstream businesses that are key to our success. Specifically, integrated gas and upstream feature
4 outstanding businesses, conventional oil and gas, gas to liquids, liquefied natural gas or LNG and deepwater.
Today, I'm going to focus my comments on the distinctive world-class capabilities of our LNG and deepwater business. We are the world leader in
LNG, supplying our customers with secure, reliable energy today and in the future. LNG is deeply integrated with our trading and optimization
activities, which enable us to capture additional value from the scale and breadth of our global LNG portfolio. And we're growing that portfolio
even more with around 11 million tonnes per year of new LNG capacity under construction which will come on stream in the second half of the
decade. This is almost 1/3 of our current LNG portfolio.
In our Upstream business, Deepwater has a proven track record of sustained cash flows from high-margin, lower carbon barrels. And thanks to a
strong portfolio of projects, which includes our resilient conventional and oil and gas business, we have a breakeven price of $30 per barrel on
projects coming on stream between 2023 and 2025. I Continued investments in oil and gas will be needed to make sure that the energy transition
happens in a balanced way with a secure supply of affordable and increasingly lower carbon energy. We will contribute to this balanced transition by focusing our investments on the most profitable and carbon competitive projects spending about 13 billion a year of CapEx in our integrated
gas and upstream business through the decade.
Total production will grow from 2025, given our confidence in our portfolio and our capabilities. Now let's see in more detail how these businesses
will continue to extend their market leadership. Our focus on value over volume, performance and discipline has driven sector-leading unit cash
flows with our integrated gas and upstream portfolios generating more cash flow per barrel than any other integrated oil and gas company over
the past 4 years. LNG will play a key role in a balanced energy transition as it produces fewer greenhouse gas emissions than coal when used to
generate electricity and fewer emissions than petrol or diesel when used to transport fuel.
We see continued strong demand for LNG in the medium term and expect to grow our LNG term sales by 20% to 30% by 2030. When we launched
our powering progress strategy, we said that we expected a gradual decline in our oil production of around 1% to 2% a year to the end of 2030.
We have achieved that reduction earlier than expected through targeted divestments and now expect to maintain our liquids production at
approximately 1.4 million barrels of oil equivalent a day by the end of the decade. This takes into account the decline will see from portfolio
simplification in areas like onshore in Nigeria, where we intend to reduce our involvement in onshore oil production while remaining in deepwater
and gas positions.
As our oil production then stabilizes over the next years, we will keep our focus on value over volume. As Sinead mentioned earlier, we'll achieve
operating cost reductions through further portfolio simplification and through testing new business models and ways of working. For example,
our upstream position in the Netherlands has reduced base operating expenses, excluding utilities by 30% since 2019 through the implementation
of a lean operating model. We will continue to high grade the portfolio, focusing our spending and expertise on opportunities with higher margins
and lower carbon emissions. As I just highlighted, our portfolio positions us well to generate significant cash flows into the next decade.
Integrated Gas and upstream combined have commercial resources with a life of more than 20 years. And if you look at total resources alone, we
are right in the middle of our peer group, the sweet spot, you could argue for a company pursuing a balanced energy transition. But what really
differentiates our portfolio is the high-margin activities with the largest percentage of our commercial resources in LNG and deepwater, both areas
where we are world leading. From the beginning of 2023 through 2025, we will have brought online projects with a total peak production of more
than 500,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day. This includes 2 new platforms in the Gulf of Mexico; three, floating production, storage and offloading
vessels in Brazil as well as Pet and Penguin's oil and gas fields in the U.K. We're also developing many smaller projects, as shown in the chart on the
bottom right.
We will invest in areas where we have proven ourselves to have deep experience with the geology. Our hurdle rates for Integrated Gas will adjust
to an 11% IRR for upstream to a 15% IRR and only where we see a risk profile that is consistent with that return. Although we believe that hydrocarbons
will be needed for a long time to come, we are also acutely aware that these barrels will need to be increasingly lower carbon. With this in mind, I
hope it's clear that hurdle rates alone will not solely dictate our capital allocation, but they do remain an important factor.
As stated before, Shell doesn't anticipate new frontier exploration entries after 2025. We'll focus our exploration efforts on extending the life of
heartland positions and on the Atlantic margin where we have unique expertise and deep understanding of geological features of this basin. Before
I move on to LNG, let me briefly comment on our opportunity in Namibia, which is evolving quickly. Since 2022, we have drilled 3 exploration wells
and 1 appraisal well in Namibia. We also recently conducted a successful flow test, the first ever test of this kind in the country. We're in the process
of reviewing the encouraging results and are focused on determining commercial potential moving efficiently and at pace.
In LNG, our integrated model is at the heart of value creation as we are the leading global marketer with a business spanning upstream, liquefaction,
shipping, marketing, optimizing for customers and trading. To give you an idea of what I mean by value creation, we estimate that LNG marketing,
trading and optimization contributes a 2% to 4% increase in return on average capital employed in Integrated Gas. And despite some quarterly
volatility and partly because of our decision to position our portfolio toward the Northern Hemisphere winter, earnings over a 12-month period
are stable and largely follow oil and gas price benchmarks.
The marketing side of our LNG business uses our supply portfolio to serve our extensive network of customers and generates stable margins from
the spread between our portfolio of supply and sales contracts. In some cases, by purchasing gas against prices linked to Henry Hub and selling gas against prices linked to oil. With our global market presence, unrivaled access to customers and knowledge, our trading and optimization
organization can create further upside and take positions that add value, especially during times of high price volatility. We invest in LNG capacity
where we have a competitive advantage. For example, we're adding 11 million tonnes per year of LNG capacity through new projects in Qatar,
along with additional processing unit in Nigeria and, of course, our project in Canada where the plant is now more than 80% complete and on
track, the first cargo by the middle of the decade.
Critically, this world-leading project is designed to achieve a lower carbon intensity than any other LNG plant in operation in the world today.
Beyond our own production, we also scale and we also have the scale and flexibility to our LNG portfolio by buying LNG from others. Most of our
new contracted volumes will come from North America, for example, from LNG projects like venture global Plaquin and Mexico Pacific. We can
also use and scale our balance sheet to enter contracts in the early stages of projects and to obtain attractive terms. Increasing utilization of existing
LNG plans is the most important way we can increase short-term value as these are our lowest cost additional LNG volumes available. That's why
I've made it my top priority to address the supply and operational issues that have caused the underutilization of our LNG assets.
And it's why, over the next 3 years, we'll invest around $2 billion every year in projects that increase the supply of natural gas to our LNG facilities.
I'm pleased to say, in the first half of 2023, we've already made progress. In Trinidad and Tobago, for example, we've increased gas production
through the delivery of Calibre and Barracuda projects. And we have further gas supply options, including the Manati gas project. In Nigeria, we've
increased our capacity to produce gas in our upstream business. But we are facing severe challenges in our network to increase the supply due to
continued vandalism of the pipelines. Our teams continue to collaborate with the Nigerian government and other stakeholders with the aim of
addressing the crude thrift from the facilities and the resulting impact that this has on gas production. These efforts have already led to improved
security.
Another area where we're focusing on performance is Prelude, our floating LNG facility in Australia which is a complex design with many first-time
applications in a remote location. Our operational record at Prelude has been challenging. But we're seeing steady improvement and recently
exceeded 100 days of continuous operation for the first time. We're also seeing faster recovery from operational trips with record production in
March and April and continued strong performance in May. We have a multiyear plan to improve Prelude's operational performance, including a
planned turnaround later in the year, which will help reduce the vulnerabilities.
We've demonstrated before, for example, when we commissioned our Pearl gas liquids plant in Qatar that we can use the breadth of the Shell's
organizational capabilities to move from a challenge start to a high-performing world-class asset. Turning our attention to another high-margin
business where we have unique capabilities. Let's look at deepwater. This is a business with higher barriers to entry. And not only have we been
the first movers in deepwater from the start, but we continue to reach even higher levels of performance through our near-field opportunities, our
technical expertise, our strong partnerships and our model of simplification and replication as we develop deepwater fields in the next decade.
We're the largest operator in the Gulf of Mexico, and we're making the most of our portfolio creating the most value by focusing on opportunities
close to our existing assets, which are in the best corridors of the Gulf of Mexico. This allows us to access the critical infrastructure to develop shorter
cycle, high-value tieback opportunities. We are top quartile in well optimization according to industry benchmarks, which enables us to protect
and grow our existing production, bringing us some of the lowest cost barrels available.
We also continue to innovate and add new volumes, projects like Vito, our newest platform in the Gulf of Mexico with a peak production of 100,000
barrels of oil equivalent a day. Improvements to the original design of Vito reduced costs by more than 70% from the original concept and will
reduce carbon emissions by about 80% over the lifetime of the facility. Vito will serve as a blueprint for other projects such as Wale. In Brazil, we're
the largest foreign producer. We're adding 3 additional mirror floating production storage and offloading vessels in the Santos Basin. And we're
adding barrels where we have opportunity to leverage our world-class partnerships and technical understanding for greater value. For example,
by increasing our stake in the Atapu field.
Let me summarize before going to your questions. We believe oil and gas will play a significant role as the world transitions to a low-carbon energy
system. Our leading integrated gas and advantaged upstream business will continue to drive cash generation for Shell into the next decade. Our
performance is underpinned by our value over volume approach and a strong resource base. We will be disciplined with our capital, allocating
around $13 billion in annual cash CapEx towards higher margin and carbon competitive opportunities. I'm really excited about even more value from this simplified structure of a combined integrated gas and upstream business. So now over to your
questions.


(Q&A Section Omitted)

Hilbert Vigevino
Okay. Thank you very much, Zoe. That's great. You've just heard about our leading upstream and integrated gas businesses, and I now want to tell
you about downstream, renewables and Energy Solutions businesses where customers are at the heart of everything we do.
Bringing these businesses together emphasizes our ability to help our customers decarbonize through the energy transition. What our customers
need will change over time? Therefore, our focus will change over time. Today, we have leading businesses like marketing, which we will get the
most value out of. For tomorrow, we are building businesses such as low carbon fuels that will allow us to capture attractive growth, leveraging
our competitive advantages. And to be ready for the future, we are seeding options in parts of the energy system where we have the capabilities
to win.
For example, in hydrogen, Al spoke earlier about our focus on molecules to enable molecules businesses up today, tomorrow, and the future, we
will need access to green electrons, both to decarbonize our own assets and to help decarbonize our customers, especially those in industry and
transport. Our optimization capabilities will be key to us successfully delivering this strategy. And we are starting from a place of strength. Our
extensive customer reach means we are well placed to deliver more value with less emissions.
Let me talk you through how we will enhance the value of our business. as we help our customers decarbonize. Our Chemicals and Products
businesses include both chemicals and refining in addition to trading and optimization of crude and oil products. Over a number of years, we have
high-graded our chemicals and refining portfolio, resulting in a more focused set of assets. Since 2020, Shell has divested 5 refineries, closed 1 and
converted 1 into a terminal. We are now repurposing our portfolio to offer more low carbon solutions to our customers. We will focus our assets
in North America and China, which are well placed to enable this. This means we are initiating a strategic review of both our Bukom and Jurong
Island assets in Singapore. This is mainly driven by the nature of the products they make and the demand that they serve.
We will also high grade and rightsize our energy and chemical parks in Europe. This means retiring certain units and continuing with some
divestments, which we already announced. The remaining parks in our portfolio will support our low-carbon opportunities with investments like
our biofuels plant, which will enable us to provide cleaner fuels to our customers. In short term, our financial delivery will be supported by the
ramp-up of Shell Polymers Monaca in Pennsylvania. Given our investments to date and our focus on low carbon solutions, our capital employed
will remain stable over the decade. This means investing around $3 billion a year to maintain and manage our assets with some capital for brownfield
development only where we see attractive returns. Through simplifying and exercising discipline, we expect to generate adjusted earnings in the
range of $3 billion to $4 billion by 2025.
Now moving to our marketing businesses. To start with, I would like to acknowledge that our performance in the recent years was below expectations.
Today, we are lowering our expected 2025 earnings to $4 billion to $5 billion. We recognize that we will need to earn back the right to grow. And
therefore, we are reducing our CapEx to some $3 billion a year from $6 billion this year. We have a world-leading marketing businesses, and it's
our obligation to get the most out of it. This will be our focus. And we will do this by applying value over volume across our footprint, identifying
and driving cost efficiencies and selectively growing where we see truly compelling opportunities.
We have the most valuable brand in the industry, valued at around $50 billion. We're the #1 lubricant supplier and have been for 16 years running.
And we serve around 32 million customers daily at our mobility side. But how can we turn these enablers into better financial performance. Going
forward, there will be 3 things we will do to improve. First, we will high grade our network. We will retire our ambition for 55,000 Shell brand mobility
sites or stations by 2025 and drive value over volume, disposing of sites and taking opportunities where they arise, allowing us to focus on attractive
markets only. As an example, we plan to exit our shareholding in Shell Pakistan Limited subject to regulatory approvals. Shell Pakistan has a large
retail and lubricants business, and we're seeing strong interest from international buyers.
Second, we will pursue pace growth in key markets where we can generate high returns like here in the U.S. and increased direct ownership of our
retail stations. For instance, with the purchase of a landmark, including the time-wise brand in Texas, we have more control over convenience retail,
and that is where we want to keep growing. Since 2018, our convenience retail business has achieved an average growth rate of 5% through
increased basket size, sales of ready-to-cook meals and greater margins from coffee up 57% since 2018.
And third, we will grow our premium margin and expand offerings such as V-Power and premium lubricant products. Gross margin contribution
of premium lubricants like Helix Ultra has increased from 39% to 45% over the last 4 years. Now let's move to EV charging. As electric vehicles
become more popular, more people will want to charge on the go, and we are building an EV business for tomorrow's demand. And as New Yorkers
know well, living in a city can mean no driveway and no home charging. And this is actually the situation for the majority of people in the world.
And even if you do have a home charger, you are likely to need the option to topping up away from home. So that is why we are focusing on more
public charging, faster charging at the right locations.
We have the second largest public EV network amongst global payers after Tesla in terms of country reach. This is more than 30,000 public chart
points, which we expect to increase to around 70,000 by 2025 and 200,000 by 2030. To measure our progress, we have moved to a public charge
point figure, and this is actually a more meaningful metric because 60% of the value resides in public charging. And in terms of the right locations,
we have a major advantage, thanks to our global network of service stations, which none of our peers can match. And there are also synergies with
our traditional marketing businesses that we can use to make our EV charging business more profitable. As I told you earlier, our convenience retail
is thriving. And there is an opportunity to generate further value by growing convenience retail in parallel with our EV offering. The average basket
size spent of EV drivers is about twice that of customers who buy gasoline or diesel. China, Europe and the U.S. are our key markets for EV charging.
In China, we saw a 25% utilization rate of our EV chargers in 2022 which was 2.5x that of the industry average. And we continue to see higher
utilization rates across our network. In financial terms, we are targeting an internal rate of return of 12% and expect to deliver an EBITDA of about
$1 billion to $1.5 billion by 2030. Let us move to low carbon fuels. Low carbon fuels such as biofuels are critical for sectors that cannot easily switch
to electricity. Like aviation, like shipping and like heavy industry. known as a drop in fuels, they allow customers to decarbonize without making
significant investments and changes to their vehicles and machinery.
Here in the U.S., you may have watched the Indie 500 recently. It was a historic day for Joseph Newgarden, who brought home his first Indie 500
victory. But it was also a big day for biofuels. Because all the Indie 500 race cars were powered by Shell's 100% renewable race fuel, a biofuel made
from ethanol. Same cars on the same track, but with a different fuel in the tank and less emissions. We expect the market for low carbon fuels to
grow, driven by stronger regulations and voluntary demand. And Shell at Shell, we have 3 main competitive advantages in this area. Our first
competitive advantage is that we have access to low carbon fuels through our own production and those we buy from third parties. Through our
[Daesan] joint venture in Brazil, we are the world's largest producer of low-carbon ethanol.
In fact, if it is in were a country, it would be the fifth largest producer of ethanol globally. Another example is our Elfa facility in Rotterdam, which
will be among the biggest in Europe and our acquisition of Nature Energy earlier this year, which makes us Europe's largest producer of renewable
natural gas. Our second competitive advantage is in trading and optimizing, which gives us the ability to generate value by connecting supply and
demand. Shell is one of the world's largest traders and blenders of biofuels. In 2022, we sold 14x more low carbon fuel than we produced. And we
delivered an average adjusted EBITDA of more than $300 million in 2021 and 2022.
And our third competitive advantage is that we are already starting from a strong customer base with more than 1 million B2B customers across
transport and industry. Our low carbon fuels business is profitable today and has a pathway to greater profitability in the future. We expect an internal rate of return greater than 12% for new investments and EUR 1 billion to EUR 2 billion EBITDA by 2030. It's one thing having a vision of the
future is quite another turning that vision into a reality.
In line with our molecular emphasis, we see hydrogen and CCS as hugely important low carbon solutions for the future. Both for Shell and for our
customers, especially in sectors that cannot be fully electrified like industry and transport. The technology works. It's already in use today. But the
vision I'm talking about here is a future where hydrogen and CCS are used at a much larger scale and where these are profitable businesses for
Shell. Shell is uniquely positioned today given our natural strength in this area, such as understanding our fuels value chain, our experience in
delivering complex projects and our technological ability.
Our plan is to integrate hydrogen and CCS into our existing facilities like at our Energy and Canals park Rotterdam, allowing us to reduce our own
emissions and those of the products we sell. As the market develops over time, we will unlock opportunities for future deployment at scale and
leverage our customer relationships to meet increasing demand. If we look at the Netherlands in more detail. Here, we are building Europe's largest
green hydrogen plant powered by our offshore wind joint venture. The hydrogen produced will help to lower the carbon intensity of the energy
products we make at the Rotterdam Park. And CCS also plays an important role with 2 projects, portals, where we are the anchor customer and
Aramis a joint venture, and both are pre-FID.
Projects like these could lower emissions and those of nearby industries, which make up for the Rotterdam Clean Energy Hub. However, to close
the gap between where we are today and the future, stronger policy and regulatory support is needed.
A good example is the inflation Reduction Act here in the United States, which can make our investments more resilient and competitive. We also
need growth in voluntary markets and more innovation, helping to scale up and reduce cost. Our plan is to invest up to $1 billion a year in hydrogen
SCCS in 2024 and 2025, focusing on regions such as Northwest Europe and here in North America. Regions where we have an existing footprint
where policy support exists, where demand from customers is expected to be strong and where we see a pathway to profitability.
And that brings me to our power business, which will help to decarbonize our assets and our customers and enable our molecular businesses of
the future. Well, let me start by acknowledging that we do not believe we have a distinctive competitive advantage when it comes to power
generation. Where we do have a distinctive competitive advantage is in the optimization and marketing of molecules. But as the energy system
continues to electrify, customers who buy molecules from us today will also expect us to offer alternatives primarily powered.
In addition to serving our customers, we will need renewable power to decarbonize our assets and to enable the production of low carbon molecules.
As demand for green electrons increases, we expect the market to be tight so we have been growing our portfolio with solar, wind and storage
assets. We must now deliver value from this portfolio, which means making disciplined and difficult choices such as stepping back from opportunities
that do not fit our strategy or do not generate enough returns.
In line with this, we have taken decisions to exit projects in Ireland and France. And we are in the process of divesting our home energy retail
business in Europe. We will be disciplined with our investments and will limit CapEx to $2 billion a year in 2024 and 2025. This is a net figure. So
proceeds from dilutions of around $1 billion to $2 billion offset the gross cash CapEx figure. With this capital, we will develop our existing assets
and target new opportunities where we can integrate across the value chain in key markets such as the U.S. Europe, India and Australia. We will
leverage our strength in trading and optimization and our existing customer relations across industry and the transport sector.
While we expect returns in power generation to be in line with the market at around 6% to 8%, there remains upside to this in several areas, such
as trading and optimization, merchant risk, dilutions and future growth in low carbon molecules. We expect this business to generate more than
3 billion of EBITDA in 2030. Today, we have talked about enhancing the value of our business while helping our customers decarbonize. Before we
wrap up, let me quickly summarize a few key points.
For our established businesses of today, we are focusing on strengthening performance and marketing and both repurposing and high-grading
our chemicals and products businesses while holding capital employed stable. We have attractive growth opportunities in EV charging and low
carbon fuels, strengthening these businesses for tomorrow. And finally, with hydrogen and CCS, we are seeding growth for the energy businesses of the future, which will be supported by Power. Doing this allows us to profitably help decarbonize our customers and enable Shell to deliver
more value with less emissions. With that, I would like to thank you and open the floor for any questions. 

(Q&A Section Omitted)

