You will be provided with an earnings call transcript and a section of an earnings release document to do your job on.


EARNINGS CALL TRANSCRIPT:
P R E S E N T A T I O N
Operator
Good morning. My name is Katie, and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's Second Quarter 2023 Earnings Conference
Call. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference call over to General Manager of Investor Relations of Chevron Corporation, Mr. Jake Spiering. Please go ahead.
Jake Spiering
Thank you, Katie. Welcome to Chevron's Second Quarter 2023 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast. I'm Jake Spiering, General Manager of Investor
Relations.
Our Chairman and CEO, Mike Wirth; and CFO, Pierre Breber, are on the call with me today. We will refer to slides and prepared remarks that are
available on Chevron's website. Before we begin, please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections and other forward-looking
statements. Please review the cautionary statement on Slide 2.
Now I will turn it over to Mike.
Michael K. Wirth - Chevron Corporation - Chairman & CEO
Thanks, Jake, and thank you, everyone, for joining us today.
Earlier this week, we announced several senior leadership changes, including Pierre's plans to retire next year, along with second quarter performance
highlights. In a few minutes, Pierre will share more details on our financials, which included return on capital employed greater than 12% for the
eighth consecutive quarter and another quarterly record in shareholder distributions, more than $7 billion.
At TCO, we're making good progress with commissioning and pre start-up activities, including introducing fuel gas to new facilities. In the third
quarter, we expect mechanical completion for the future growth project and to complete a major turnaround. Cost and scheduled guidance is
unchanged.
Conversion of the field from high pressure to low pressure is expected to begin late this year and FGP is on track to start up by mid next year. We
have unused contingency, which gives us confidence that we'll complete the project within the total budget.
After completion of these projects, TCO is expected to deliver production greater than 1 million barrels of oil equivalent per day and generate
about $5 billion of free cash flow, Chevron share at $60 Brent in 2025. Chevron's Permian production set another record in the second quarter,
about 5% above the previous quarterly high.
We expect next quarter's production to be roughly flat before growing again in the fourth quarter, on track with our full year guidance. Early 2023
well performance in our company-operated assets in all 3 areas is consistent with our plans. In New Mexico, we've put on production at 10 wells.
Before year-end, we expect to pop an additional 30 wells with higher expected production rates. As a reminder, about half of Chevron's production
is company operated with a balanced non-operated and royalty production.
While short-term well performance is one measure, we're focused on maximizing value from our unique, large resource base expected to deliver
decades of high-return production. Over the next 5 years, we expect to develop over 2,200 net new wells, growing production while delivering
return on capital employed near 30% and free cash flow greater than $5 billion in 2027 at $60 Brent.
Longer term, we've identified well over 6,000 economic net well locations that support a plateau greater than 1 million barrels per day through
the end of next decade. Our deep resource inventory and advantaged royalty position allow us to optimize our development plans for high returns,
incorporating learnings and technology improvements as we expect to deliver strong free cash flow for years to come.
In the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico, the floating production unit anchor is on location and the project remains on track for first oil next year. We
continue to build on our exploration success and were awarded the highest number of blocks in the most recent lease round. In the Eastern Med,
our Aphrodite appraisal well in Cyprus met our expectations, and we've submitted a development concept to the government.
At Leviathan, we're expanding pipeline capacity to nearly 1.4 Bcf per day. We expect to close our PDC Energy -- our acquisition of PDC Energy in
August after their shareholder vote next week. Our teams are working on integration plans, and we look forward to welcoming PDC's talented
employees to Chevron.
Now over to Pierre.
Pierre R. Breber - Chevron Corporation - VP & CFO
As Mike said, strong, consistent financial performance enabled Chevron to return record cash to shareholders this quarter while also investing
within our CapEx budget and paying down debt. Working capital lowered cash flow primarily due to true-up tax payments outside the U.S. Excluding
tax payments, working capital movements are variable. Our typical pattern in the second half of the year is to draw down working capital.
Chevron's net debt ratio ended the quarter at 7%, significantly below the low end of our guidance range. Surplus cash on the balance sheet was
reduced during the quarter with cash balances ending at $9.6 billion, well above the cash required to run the company.
Adjusted second quarter earnings were down $5.6 billion versus the same quarter last year. Adjusted upstream earnings were lower mainly due
to realizations, partly offset by higher liftings. Other includes primarily favorable tax items and income from Venezuela nonequity investments.
Adjusted downstream earnings decreased primarily due to lower refining margins. OpEx was up mainly due to higher transportation costs and the
inclusion of REG.
Compared with last quarter, adjusted earnings were down $900 million. Adjusted upstream earnings decreased primarily due to lower realizations.
This was partially offset by higher production in the U.S. and nonrecurring tax benefits. Adjusted downstream earnings were down modestly. Lower
margins were partially offset with higher volumes.
Second quarter oil equivalent production was down about 20,000 barrels per day from last quarter primarily due to planned turnarounds at Gorgon
and in the Gulf of Mexico and downtime associated with the Canadian wildfires. This was mostly offset by growth in the Permian.
Now looking ahead, in the third quarter, we have a planned turnaround at TCO and a planned pit stop at Gorgon completed earlier this week. Our
full year production outlook is trending near the low end of the annual guidance range.
Since PDC's proxy solicitation on July 7, we've not been permitted to buy back our shares. After we closed the acquisition in August, we plan to
resume buybacks at the $17.5 billion annual rate, which we expect to continue through the fourth quarter. We do not expect a dividend from TCO
until the fourth quarter. Full year affiliate dividends are expected to be near the low end of our guidance.
Putting it all together, we delivered another quarter with solid financial results, strong project execution and continued return of cash to shareholders.
Our approach is consistent and you can see that in our actions and results.
Back to you, Jake.
Jake Spiering
That concludes our prepared remarks. We'll now take your questions. (Operator Instructions) Katie, please open the lines.




----------



EARNINGS RELEASE TRANSCRIPT:
Chevron Corporation (NYSE: CVX) reported earnings of
$6.0 billion ($3.20 per share - diluted) for second quarter 2023, compared with $11.6 billion
($5.95 per share - diluted) in second quarter 2022. Included in the current quarter was a onetime
tax benefit of $225 million related to impairments that were recognized in prior periods.
Foreign currency effects increased earnings by $10 million. Adjusted earnings of $5.8 billion
($3.08 per share - diluted) in second quarter 2023 compared to adjusted earnings of $11.4
billion ($5.82 per share - diluted) in second quarter 2022.

Financial Highlights
• Second quarter 2023 earnings decreased compared to second quarter 2022 primarily due to
lower upstream realizations and lower margins on refined product sales.
• Sales and other operating revenues in second quarter 2023 were $47.2 billion, down from
$65.4 billion in the year-ago period primarily due to lower commodity prices.
• Worldwide net oil-equivalent production was up 2 percent from the year-ago quarter
primarily due to record Permian Basin production of 772,000 barrels of oil equivalent per
day.
• Capex in the second quarter of 2023 was up 18 percent from a year ago primarily due to
higher investment in the United States.
• Quarterly shareholder distributions were a record $7.2 billion during the quarter, including
dividends of $2.8 billion and share repurchases of $4.4 billion (over 27 million shares
repurchased during the quarter and nearly 50 million shares year-to-date).
• The company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of one dollar and fifty-one
cents ($1.51) per share, payable September 11, 2023, to all holders of common stock as
shown on the transfer records of the corporation at the close of business on August 18,
2023.
Business Highlights
• Announced an agreement to acquire PDC Energy, Inc. in an all-stock transaction, with
closing anticipated in August 2023. This acquisition is expected to add $1 billion to annual
free cash flow.
• Achieved first natural gas production from the Gorgon Stage 2 development in Australia,
supporting long-term energy supply in the Asia-Pacific region.
• Received approvals to extend Block 0 concession in Angola through 2050.
• Reached final investment decision with partners to build a third gathering pipeline that is
expected to increase production capacity from approximately 1.2 to nearly 1.4 billion cubic
feet per day at the Leviathan field in Israel.
• Announced agreements to conduct pilot tests on advanced closed loop geothermal
technology in Japan.

